
This is a more convenient, versatile way to do ECHO TRAINING on the Morserino32
in conjunction with your Windows PC.

It's best to ensure your Morserino has the LATEST firmware installed.
 
Words and phrases are selected and played from the computer.  
Replies are keyed in from your Morsrino at any speed you'd like.   
Nothing is downloaded into your Morserino in order to do echo training this way.
Files to play are easily added to your PC and selected from the
phrases program to do training.

The training works best using the built-in or external iambic dual-paddle key.
The program WILL work with a straght key.  See step 7) below.

Here are a few simple steps to installing and using the Phrases Trainer program: 
This version is MS Windows only...

1)  If you have never had a ham radio connected to your PC via USB, you'll need to install
    the Virtual Serial Port Driver.  This can be found at:
    https://www.silabs.com/products/development-tools/software/usb-to-uart-bridge-vcp-drivers

    Install this before connecting the Morserino32 hardware to your PC, 
    and before installing thePC Phrases Trainer Program.

2)  Acquire the latest version of the Morserino32 Phrases Trainer Program.
    https://github.com/Tommy-de-oz1thc/Morserino-32-Phrases-trainer/tree/Morserino/Release/Version%202.0

3)  On your Morserino32, double click  the black button to get to the master
    configuration menu, and set "Serial Output" to "Keyer."

4)  Attach your Morserino32 to your PC via a USB cable.

5)  Invoke your PC's device manager application (using search bar),
    and under "Ports (COM and LPT)", note the COM Port associated with the Silicon Labs driver.
    Right-click on the driver and select "Properties."  You will need to set the "bits per second"
    under "Port Settings" tab to 115200 bits per second.  
    You only need to do this once.

6)  The PC Phrases Trainer program is pretty self explanatory.  
    With your Morserino32 hardware plugged into the USB port, click on the .exe program that
    you downloaded.  Sound from the program is origniates from  the PC speaker. 
    Your reply from the Morserino sound from the Morserino speaker.   
    All word and phrase files are selected on the PC from the Phrases program.  
    There is nothing downloaded to the Morserino.  
    The Morserino does NOT need or use Wifi connectivity.

***  HOW TO USE THE PROGRAM ***

7)  Within the program, click "Check" in the upper right corner and
    select the COM port associated with the trainer (from step 5).  
    Click "Connect" button. 
    On your Morserino32, select the Modus "CW Keyer" for IAMBIC PADDLE mode.
    Otherwise, select the Modus "CW Decoder" for STRAIGHT KEY mode.

8)  Within the Phrases Trainer Program, click the "Check" button next to "Lessons" 
    and select a lesson using the pull-down menu.  These are the lessons from within 
    the Phrase directory you downloaded.  Then click "Load Lesson" button.

9)  Click "Start" button to begin using the program.   Phrases from the lesson will play 
    at random, and you need to key in the phrase in response.
    Your Morserino32 keyer speed for sending Morse is independent of the speed phrases
    are played within the Phrases program.  You can listen to phrases at a different speed than
    you send back from the Morserino.  Phrases sending speed is selected within the program. 
    Your reply speed is set in the Morserino.

    Sending commands from the Morserino is simple, as follows:
       a)  Backspace a word by sending six DITS. 
       b)  Erase your input and replay the phrase in Morse by keying in <AR>
       c)  Complete entry of your phrase for checking by sending <BT>

    You can put any text files you'd like into the Phrases directory on the PC. 
    Then, just select them and play them.

10) ENJOY!

11) Email me at w5ned@arrl.net with questions, concerns or feedback.

73, Neall Doren W5NED
